[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I think life could become
very tedious and boring if it
was a bed of roses.
There are many
thorns that you have
to pull out and walk through.
That's what life is about.
It's about the ups and downs.
You are the sum total
of those experiences
that you've worked at.
To live on my own and
hermetize, become a hermit,
I thought that's the ideal
spiritual situation to be in.
But I've realized
that's not the answer.
Time has taught me that you
can't live as an island.
You need your fellow man.
You see yourself as a
reflection in your fellow man.
And you learn from your fellow
man good things and bad things,
provided, of course, you
mix with the right people.
Being alone is one thing.
But being lonely is a totally
different kettle of fish.
I spent three
months in New York.
So I wasn't alone, alone.
I was alone amongst
a lot of people.
And it's the loneliest
time I've ever had.
You can be lonely
anywhere on this planet.
It's your state of mind
which determines loneliness.
I think loneliness
is an emptiness that
is frightening and scary.
There's this empty, dark void.
And you plod around in it.
I think loneliness is about
a feeling of being lost.
And you are wanting to find
a direction and a search
for something.
And you're uncertain what that
something is or should be.
It's partly depression as well.
I think depression and
loneliness go hand in hand.
I also know when it's coming.
Then I say to myself,
be good to yourself.
Be kind to yourself.
It's inevitable that your
flame is going to dim.
A loneliness, I suppose,
is part of life.
Everybody experiences
loneliness.
You learn to live with it.
You have to go through it.
Don't try and escape it.
See it through.
Face reality.
And see it for what it is.
Life is not about tricks.
It's about realities.
If you take a trick
as a solution,
you're tricking and
kidding yourself.
You've got to solve these
problems in a real way.
You've got to face
it and look into it.
It's a gentle confrontation.
Become one with it.
Embrace it.
Work with it.
Or put it on the
shelf for a while.
Stand back.
And say, OK, I'll
recognize you tomorrow.
I am now in that
stage of my life
where I'm becoming
more and more aware
that it's now towards the end.
It's lovely being
on the open sea.
But I'm becoming aware
that there's land ahead.
There's an end to the journey.
The only certainty
in life is death.
You arrived naked
and you depart naked.
And then you realize
that all these material
things that you've
gathered, that's
no fulfillment of
spirit and life.
It's a state of mind.
It's what you've acquired in
your soul, which is wealth.
I don't have an answer
to, why am I here?
I think maybe to work at this.
The Twana have a
wonderful thing or saying.
They say, you
brought me the heart.
You're talking with
the heart again today.
It's all in the heart.
It's not in the head.
That generates a more positive,
loving spirit within yourself.
The bottom line is
love and do to others
as you'd like them to do to you.
I think that's one way of
reaching a point of happiness.